--- Source: https://tax.gov.ae/DataFolder/Files/Guides/VAT/Awareness/Get%20to%20know%20your%20Tax%20Obligations.pdf ---
Get to know your
Tax Obligations
Do you need to register for Value Added Tax?
A business resident in the UAE that makes taxable supplies within the UAE is obliged to register
for Value Added Tax (“VAT”) if the total value of its taxable supplies and imports exceeded the
mandatory registration threshold of AED 375,000 over the previous 12 months, or the business
expects that the total value of its taxable supplies and imports will exceed the mandatory
registration threshold in the next 30 days.
A business also has the option to voluntarily register for VAT if the total value of its taxable
supplies and imports or taxable expenses in the previous 12 months exceeded the voluntary
registration threshold of AED 187,500, or the business expects that the total value of its taxable
supplies and imports or taxable expenses will exceed the voluntary registration threshold in the
next 30 days.
Transactions subject to VAT are divided into 3 categories:
5 0
All supplies subject All supplies subject to Import of goods and
to VAT at %5. VAT at zero-rate. services.
Which supplies are subject to %5
VAT?
5
All supplies that fall within the scope of UAE
VAT and are not subject to the zero-rate.
Which supplies are subject to
VAT at zero-rate?
The following supplies are subject to VAT at the zero rate
as an exception, provided that certain conditions for each
(as mentioned in the legislation) are met:
- Export of goods and services.
- First supply of buildings specifically designed
- International transport of goods and passengers, for charitable institutions (lease or sale).
and transport-related services.
- First supply of buildings that were converted
- Certain means of transport, such as trains, sea from non-residential to residential units (lease
vessels and aircraft, and goods and services or sale).
related to such means of transport.
- Crude oil and natural gas.
- First supply of residential buildings (lease or sale)
within 3 years of finalizing their construction. - Certain educational services and related
goods and services.
- Airplanes and marine vessels designed for the
purpose of rescue or aid through air or sea. - Necessary and preventive healthcare services
and related goods and services.
- Certain precious investment metals.
What are the supplies that are exempt
from VAT?
The following supplies are exempt from VAT, provided that
certain conditions for each (as mentioned in the legislation)
are met:
- Certain financial services. - Bare land.
- Supply of residential units (lease or sale), - Local passenger transport.
if such supply is not subject to zero-rate.
What records should you keep and for how long?
As a prerequisite, every person who conducts any business, whether
registered for tax or not, should hold the following documentations and
records, as mentioned in the legislation. These documents should include
accounting records with entries on payments, receipts, purchases, sales,
profits and expenses, including:
- Balance sheets and income - Inventory records and statements
statements (profit and loss accounts). (including quantities and values) held at
the end of any relevant Tax Period and all
- Records of wages and salaries. records of stock-counts related - to
inventory statements.
- Fixed asset records.
- Any records as specified in tax law and
other legislation.
In addition to the above, VAT registered businesses
in the UAE must retain the following documentations:
- Records of all supplies and imports of - Records of goods and services
goods and services. purchased for which input tax has not
been deducted.
- All tax invoices, tax credit notes and
alternative documents received and - Records of exported goods and
issued. services.
- Records of goods and services that - Records of adjustments or corrections
have been disposed of or used for to accounts or tax invoices.
matters not related to the business,
detailing the VAT paid on those goods
and services.
A Vat registered business also needs to
maintain a VAT record or account which show:
-The output tax due on taxable supplies. -The accrued output tax after correction of
any errors or adjustments.
The output tax due on taxable supplies
-
accounted for via the reverse charge -Input tax recoverable on supplies or
mechanism. imports.
-Input tax recoverable after the correction
of any errors or adjustments.
Note: The aforementioned records must be kept for a minimum of 5
years after the end of the tax period. Where the taxable person
owns real estate, the records relating to the real estate must be kept
for a period of 15 years, in accordance with the requirements of tax
legislation.
Do you have multiple branches?
A taxable person and all its branches shall be treated as the
same person for the purposes of tax liability and shall
receive only one Tax Registration Number (TRN).
Can I form a Tax Group?
Related businesses that share economic, financial and regulatory ties
(either in law, shareholding or voting rights) can be registered as a tax
group if they have an establishment in the UAE, and all members of
the group are legal persons under joint control.
Transactions between tax group members are disregarded for VAT
purposes, and one group member nominated as the "representative
member" files consolidated VAT returns covering all group activities.
Creating and using your e-services account:
Registration can be carried out simply using the -24hour online service portal via
the FTA website: www.tax.gov.ae, through the following steps:
Sign-up for an e-services account through the FTA’s website and
1
activate it
Access the e-services account dashboard and click on “Add New
2 Taxable Person” then click on “Register for VAT” and complete
the registration process
After receipt of an e-mail verification, the taxable person logs-in to
3
the e-services portal to continue the tax registration process.
Register in less than 20 minutes:
When the required documents are prepared accurately in advance, it only takes 45
minutes to fill out the request form for electronic VAT registration. While completing
the form, a taxpayer may save the application at any time and complete the process
once all documentation is available to be submitted.
Examples of supporting documents:
- Valid trade license or business -Proof of the authorized
license manager/signatory’s right to sign
documents (e.g.: articles of incorporation
- Passport (and Emirates ID in case of or public/private agency, certified by
residency in the UAE) of the notary).
authorized signatory.
-Financial report showing monthly taxable
supplies for the previous 12 months.
How do I calculate the VAT included in
the amounts I receive from the client?
The VAT included in any transaction is calculated by dividing the
price by 21.
Example: Calculation mechanism:
VAT included in price = AED 220 ÷
Price including VAT = AED 220
21 = AED 10.48
What are your obligations after registration?
After registering with the FTA, a taxable person is referred to as ‘Registrant’.
Advertise prices inclusive of VATA registrant must ensure that prices of goods and services
advertised to consumers include VAT, whether in food menus, catalogues, or price tags.
1 Issue Tax Invoices for each sale of taxable
goods or services
A registrant must issue valid tax invoices for each taxable supply of
goods or services. The issuance of proper tax invoices is one of the tax
compliance requirements that must be adhered to in the course of
making taxable supplies. Make sure that all the tax invoices you issue
meet the necessary criteria, as below.
The Tax Invoice shall include the following:
-The words “Tax Invoice” clearly displayed on the invoice. -Description of the goods or services supplied.
-The name, address and Tax Registration Number (TRN) of
-Unit price, the quantity or volume of the supply, the
the supplier.
payable VAT rate and payable amount (in AED) for each
-The name, address and TRN (if registered for VAT) of the good or service.
recipient.
-Any o¬ffered discount rates.
-A sequential tax invoice number or a unique invoice
number that enables the identification of the tax invoice
and its number in any sequence of invoices. -Total amount payable in AED.
-Date of issuance. -The amount of the tax payable in AED and the applicable
exchange rate.
-The date of supply if it is different from the date of
issuance.
-If the recipient is required to account for VAT, the invoice
must include a reference to this, and a reference to the
relevant provision of the Law.
Simplified Tax Invoice:
A registrant may issue a simplified tax invoice in the following cases:
Where the recipient is registered for VAT but the
Where the recipient is not registered
1 2
consideration for the supply does not exceed
for VAT; or
AED 10,000.
Please note that ‘consideration’ is all that is received or expected to be received in return for the
supply of Goods or Services, whether this is in money or other acceptable forms of payment.
The simplified invoice must contain each of the following details:
- The words “Tax Invoice” clearly displayed on the invoice. - Date of issuance of the tax invoice.
- The name, address and TRN of the registered supplier. - Description of the goods or services supplied.
- The total consideration and the VAT amount charged.
2
Submit your tax return on time
The FTA usually allocates three-month tax periods (quarterly) to a
registrant, however, it may specify shorter or longer tax periods for
registrants, if it deems it necessary. A registrant is required to submit their
tax return no later than the 28th day from the end of each tax period, or on
the following working day if the corresponding date falls on an official
holiday or a weekend.
Examples of tax return periods: -Quarterly (e.g. March – May, June – August,
September – November, December – February).
- Monthly (January, February, March, ... etc).
- Quarterly (e.g. January – March, April – June, July – -Semi-annually
September, October – December)). (January – June and July –December)
-
Quarterly (e.g. February – April, May – July, August
– October, November – January).
In all cases, a registrant must file their VAT returns within the periods specified
by the FTA, even if there are no taxes payable for the period in question. The
VAT returns must be submitted through the e-services portal and must include:
• The value of supplies subject to the standard tax • The value of supplies subject to Reverse Charge
rate made during the tax period and the imposed received during the tax period.
output tax, per Emirate.
• Goods imported into the UAE
• Tax refunds provided to tourists under the Tax
Refunds for Tourists Scheme, for retailers who • The value of purchases and expenses incurred
provide tax refunds to tourists in the UAE under the during the tax period if you are seeking to claim the
official tourists refund scheme. input tax, and the refundable tax value.
• The value of supplies subject to the zero-rate • Any supplies which were subject to the reverse
provided during the tax period. charge for which you would like to recover input tax.
• The value of provided supplies exempt from VAT
during the tax period.
To submit the tax return, a registrant has to:
Access the e-services portal on the FTA website eservices.tax.gov.ae, click on the “Value
1
Added Tax” tab to find Tax Returns, then choose “VAT201” then “New Tax Return”.
Complete the form: Fill in all the information concerning sales and other outputs as well as
2
expenditures and other inputs as follows:
a Value without VAT.
b VAT rate value
Based on data entered, the system calculates the payable or refundable VAT for the
relevant tax period.
Review all information entered into the form after all fields have been carefully filled in and
3
confirmed, and after verifying the accuracy of the information, click "Submit."
Pay due VAT by clicking the “My Payments” tab, and make sure payment dates are met in
4
due time.
Pay your taxes on time
area registrant is required to pay any outstanding amounts by the due date of tax return
submission, i.e. by the 28th day of the month following the end of a tax return period (or on
the next working day if the date coincides with a public holiday or weekend).
It is important that a registrant pays taxes as early as possible before they are due and not
wait until the last day, to avoid any unforeseen circumstances that might cause delays in the
FTA receiving the payment (for example, the bank may need two or three working days to
carry out a transfer).
The FTA provides various payment channels tailored to the needs of all its
registered categories to facilitate the payment of taxes due:
- The UAE Funds Transfer System (UAEFTS) of the Central Bank, where a Generated
International Bank Account Number (GIBAN) is allocated to each person registered with
the FTA, enabling the taxable person to pay the tax in a variety of flexible methods. The
system has no extra financial obligations or fees and o¬ffers real-time transfer of funds
between bank accounts. It also provides the opportunity to pay due taxes through the
branches of some 77 banks, money exchange agencies and financial institutions
throughout the UAE, where payments can be submitted using the GIBAN. Bank cards
can also be used for payments.
-
Through the new e-Dirham Gateway via FTA e-services or credit cards.
Your Entitlement to recover input tax
A registrant may recover the input tax incurred on the purchase of goods and services in
the course of business subject to keeping records andtax invoices that determine the
value of VAT charged by suppliers, and which proves that VAT was paid on such goods
or services. The total tax incurred during any tax period should be disclosed in the tax
return for that tax period.
Blocked input tax
Input tax incurred by a registrant may be blocked from recovery.
Such expenses are:
- Entertainment costs;
- Motor vehicles used for personal purposes; and
- Employee-related expenses.
Contacting the Federal Tax Authority
Eservices.tax.gov.ae
All FTA services are provided electronically, such as registration, filing of tax returns, submitting tax
payments, and refund requests, via the e-services portal, which can be accessed from www.tax.gov.ae.
www.tax.gov.ae
The FTA, through its website www.tax.gov.ae, also provides all legislation, guides, declarations and
e-Learning programs that taxpayers can use to understand their tax obligations and how to fulfill them.
600599994
If you have any inquiries regarding tax procedures, call the above telephone number to speak to one of
our call-center team members who will answer all your questions and provide assistance, supporting you
with the information you might need.
Our social media platforms
To find out news and activities of the FTA, we invite you to follow us on:
@UAETAX @UAETAX @Theuaetaxes Federal Tax Authority
Tax Support
The FTA provides taxpayers with an array of tools and resources to assist in knowing the tax obligations
and how to fulfill them.
Tax Agents Registry:
A Tax Agent can assist taxpayer with their tax obligations, in accordance with a contractual agreement
between the person and the tax agent. A taxpayer can find a suitable tax agent in their area by clicking
on the ‘Tax Support’ tab on the website and selecting the ‘Registered Tax Agents’ tab, then using the
search filters to identify the most suitable tax agent for their needs.
Tax Accounting Software Vendors list:
This list allows taxpayers to identify FTA-approved Tax Accounting Software vendors and use these
providers to automate their business tax system.
Kindly note that this document is intended to provide general information. It does not include all legal
details relating to a person's tax obligations, and is not intended as a legal reference. Accordingly,
everyone must consider their obligations in accordance with the details stated in the UAE Tax Laws
and Executive Regulations, which are available on the FTA website.
994 599 600 tax.gov.ae